---
title: Pricing
updatedAt: "2023-04-19T04:00:00.000Z"
---

# Livepeer Pricing

Running your own Livepeer node can be challenging, especially when getting
started or while scaling fast. Livepeer broadcasting providers run hosted
infrastructure behind the scenes for you so you can focus on building video
experiences in your application instead.

Broadcasting providers typically provide an API key that you can use to publish
video streams on the Livepeer network. They pay the network on your behalf at a
market rate determined by the network's supply side, so it's up to them to set
and advertise their own pricing.

Today, Livepeer Inc, the initial team behind the Livepeer protocol, runs the
most popular hosted service. We've included their pricing information below.

## How much does it cost to start using Livepeer Inc's hosted gateway service?

Itâ€™s free to start! Easily create an account with 1,000 minutes/month of video
processing (transcoding and uploading videos), 100 viewers, and 3 multistreaming
targets per stream for no charge.

## What costs are associated with livestreaming?

There are three costs associated with livestreaming.

**Transcoding** - the ingesting of video to the Livepeer network ($0.005
USD/min)

**Delivery** - the streaming of video to various consumer endpoints; delivery
ensures flawless high quality playback on whatever device or bandwidth the end
viewer is watching ($0.015 USD/GB)

**Multistreaming** - sending the video to multiple players (like YouTube or
Twitch) ($0.002 USD/min per destination)

## What are the costs associated with video on demand?

There are three costs associated with video on demand.

**Uploading** - the uploading, transcoding, and optimization of content to make
sure it plays back beautifully ($0.005 USD/min)

**Delivery** - the streaming of video to various video player or device ($0.015
USD/GB)

**Storage** - the cost of storing content reliably via Livepeer storage on
decentralized or cloud storage providers (pricing coming soon)

## How much does Livepeer cost versus compared to traditional video development platforms?

Livepeer aims to provide video processing at a 5-10x cost saving compared to
traditional video development platforms.

## I am building with Livepeer at a hackathon. Is there a cost to stream?

In the hundreds of hackathon projects that were built with Livepeer, none have
ever exceeded the 1,000 min/month free plan. But, if this is a concern email
Livepeer Inc at [contact@livepeer.org](mailto:contact@livepeer.org) or reach out
on [discord](https://discord.gg/livepeer).

## Do I need to provide a credit card number to create an account?

A credit card is not required to create an account.

## What currencies does Livepeer Inc accept?

USD is the only currency accepted right now through the dashboard. Crypto-native
payments are coming later this year. If you prefer to pay with cryptocurrency
now, contact us directly.
